They were speechless when they heard
she would leave home
and join full-time service.
Instead of pursuing their common goals,
dreams, and hopes,
she would do whatever she was told to do.
What a sacrifice!
They were so proud of her.
And they started thinking
about what to do in order to support her.
Whom are we talking about?
Let us open to Judges 11,
and let’s find out who they were
and what they did.
Dear soon-to-be graduates, what they did
is something that will help you
to succeed in your assignment.
Let’s read, please, Judges 11:40:
“From year to year,
“the young women of Israel
“would go to give commendation
“to the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite
four days in the year.”
The young women of Israel
went to the sanctuary in Shiloh
in order to give
commendation and praise
to the daughter of Jephthah.
Commendation strengthened
this full-time servant of Jehovah.
Is this not what you want to do too?
So that’s why we have the question for you,
How often will you “go to Shiloh”?
Will you strengthen others
and stabilize the organization
by regularly commending and praising others?
Let us, therefore, ask
the following questions:
What type of commendation
is effective in strengthening others?
How can you imitate
the young women of Israel?
And why do you want to give
commendation regularly?
Let’s start with the first question,
What type of commendation is effective
in strengthening others?
And let us, please, look at the example
that Jesus set
as we turn to Mark chapter 5.
Here he commends
the frightened, sick woman
who touched his outer garment.
As we read Mark 5:34,
please watch out for five elements
of effective commendation
—Mark 5:34:
“He said to her:
“‘Daughter, your faith has made you well.
Go in peace, and be healed
from your grievous sickness.’”
Did you note
what made this commendation effective?
First, effective commendation is specific.
Jesus commended the woman for what she did.
Her faith moved her to act.
Effective commendation is sincere.
The woman’s faith was real
and outstanding.
Did you notice that Jesus
did not use the opportunity
to counsel her for violating the Law?
This might have made
his commendation sound insincere.
Third, effective commendation is personal.
Jesus used the expression “daughter.”
That expression emphasized
his tender concern for her.
Fourth, effective commendation
is more than words.
Jesus acknowledged the needs of the woman
and followed up with deeds.
He healed her.
And fifth,
effective commendation is unselfish.
Jesus did not commend the woman
in order to make himself look good,
but he was concerned about her
and wanted to make her feel good.
Now, can you do the same?
Let’s go back to Judges 11,
and let’s look again at verse 40.
So this is Judges 11:40,
and let’s answer the second question,
How can you imitate
the young women of Israel?
So the verse started here
in verse 40 by saying
“from year to year,”
so this means regularly,
repeatedly.
The young women would praise
the same person
again and again.
In your assignment as you work with others
in Bethel, in the ministry,
or watch them in your congregation,
can you repeatedly praise them?
For instance, could you praise them
for their zeal,
their fine efforts,
or for their acts of love?
Could you send
an upbuilding text message saying
“Great job,” “Well done,”
“Thumbs up,” “Loved it,”
maybe along with a brief comment?
These messages do not require
a lot of effort and time,
but they can go a long way.
One time is not enough.
Do it again and again.
Don’t worry that the person
could get a big head.
In the Bible,
Jehovah praised and commended
the persons whom he loved repeatedly.
Commending others again and again
is a good thing.
Now, the verse continues here, saying:
“The young women of Israel
would go to give commendation
“to the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite
four days in the year.”
Being away from their family obligations
must have been a sacrifice.
Somebody else must have taken over
their usual work.
They had to travel to Shiloh
and they may also have brought a gift.
Now, could this serve as a reminder
that giving commendation
might sometimes require
a little bit more time and effort
and can come at a personal cost?
Yes.
Calling somebody or visiting him
requires time and effort.
Spending time with your brother and sister
honors them.
Being out with them in the ministry,
working together on a project,
or asking them for advice
really makes them feel good
and can be a powerful commendation.
It’s worth all it costs.
Timing is important too.
Proverbs 15:23 states:
“A word spoken
at the right time—how good it is!”
So, what is “the right time”
for commendation?
The verses leading up
to our theme scripture here
mentioned that Jephthah’s daughter
right away got much needed support.
So generally speaking,
commendation is of greatest value
when it’s given
as soon as the opportunity comes up,
even if it’s initially just a brief comment.
The sooner somebody receives
positive feedback,
the quicker feelings of insecurity or doubts
will vanish
and the sooner the other person
will be happy and feel good.
Please do not wait too long,
but act right away.
Now, this leads us
to our third and final question,
Why do you want to give
commendation regularly?
As you go to your assignments,
you will be surrounded
by many “daughters of Jephthah”
—faithful, full-time servants of Jehovah
who made sacrifices to serve.
This auditorium is full of them,
and you are among them.
You will meet
brothers and sisters in the congregation,
and some of them are insecure—worried.
Sometimes they doubt
that they are worth anything.
They are giving their very best
to stay faithful despite challenges
—fighting with their own imperfection,
dealing with the results
of their own mistakes,
and are sometimes discouraged
because of setbacks.
They need commendation.
We all need commendation
because commendation
enhances a person’s self-esteem,
it builds confidence and motivates to action,
it reinforces our desire
to do good things,
and it encourages us
to keep on doing our very best.
Please “go to Shiloh” as often as possible.
Now, there’s another important aspect.
The reality is
that when you work closely
with brothers and sisters,
you see their flaws and mistakes.
So, what are you going to do?
Will you ignore that person?
Or will you try to imitate Jehovah,
who is searching for the good in us?
Make it a habit to search for the good,
and then give voice to the positive.
Now, what happens to us
if we are doing it that way?
It can change us.
It can change us from being a complainer
to being a commender.
A commender focuses on the good in others.
He sees others
with Jehovah’s eyes.
A commender is very happy
because he sees
all the beauty around him.
So if you gain a reputation
for commending rather than complaining,
you will succeed in your assignment
because others will love to work with you.
Dear soon-to-be graduates
of the 151st class of Gilead,
please make commending and praising others
part of your personality
—something that comes naturally.
So how often will you “go to Shiloh”?
Please “go to Shiloh” as often as possible.